Quickstart style set up pages sdk guides (#3645)
temporalio/documentation: docs/develop/go/set-up.mdx

</CodeSnippet>
</>
}>

## Start the development server

Once you've installed Temporal CLI and added it to your PATH, open a new Terminal window and run the following command.

This command starts a local Temporal Service. It starts the Web UI, creates the default Namespace, and uses an in-memory database.

The Temporal Service will be available on localhost:7233.
The Temporal Web UI will be available at http://localhost:8233.

Leave the local Temporal Service running as you work through tutorials and other projects. You can stop the Temporal Service at any time by pressing CTRL+C.

Once you have everything installed, you're ready to build apps with Temporal on your local machine.

</SetupStep>
</SetupSteps>

## Run Hello World: Test Your Installation

Now let's verify your setup is working by creating and running a complete Temporal application with both a Workflow and Activity.

This test will confirm that:

- Your Go SDK installation is working
- The Temporal Go SDK is properly installed
- Your local Temporal Service is running
- You can successfully create and execute Workflows and Activities
- The communication between components is functioning correctly

> 

Author: @angelazhou32

id: set-up-your-local-go
title: Set up your local with the Go SDK
sidebar_label: Quickstart - Setup
description: Configure your local development environment to get started developing with Temporal
keywords:
  - set up
  - getting started
  - Go sdk
tags:
  - Go guide
  - Go
  - setup
  - getting started
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import { SetupSteps, SetupStep, CodeSnippet } from "@site/src/components/elements/SetupSteps";
import { CallToAction } from "@site/src/components/elements/CallToAction";

# Quickstart - Setup

Configure your local development environment to get started developing with Temporal.

<SetupSteps>
<SetupStep code={
  <>
    <CodeSnippet language="bash">
    go version
    </CodeSnippet>
    <CodeSnippet language="bash">
    go version go1.18.1 darwin/amd64
    </CodeSnippet>
  </>
}>
## Install Go

Make sure you have Go installed. These tutorials were produced using Go 1.18. Check your version of Go with the following command:

This will return your installed Go version.

</SetupStep>

<SetupStep code={
<>
<CodeSnippet language="bash">
mkdir goproject
</CodeSnippet>
<CodeSnippet language="bash">
cd goproject
</CodeSnippet>
<CodeSnippet language="bash">

> go mod init

Reviewer: ```
go: cannot determine module path for source directory C:\Users\Alex\Desktop\goproject (outside GOPATH, module path must be specified)

Example usage:
        'go mod init example.com/m' to initialize a v0 or v1 module
        'go mod init example.com/m/v2' to initialize a v2 module

Run 'go help mod init' for more information.
```

This needs to be something like `go mod init my-org/my-project`

The Temporal Web UI will be available at http://localhost:8233.

Leave the local Temporal Service running as you work through tutorials and other projects. You can stop the Temporal Service at any time by pressing CTRL+C.

Once you have everything installed, you're ready to build apps with Temporal on your local machine.

</SetupStep>
</SetupSteps>

## Run Hello World: Test Your Installation

Now let's verify your setup is working by creating and running a complete Temporal application with both a Workflow and Activity.

This test will confirm that:

- Your Go SDK installation is working
- The Temporal Go SDK is properly installed
- Your local Temporal Service is running
- You can successfully create and execute Workflows and Activities
- The communication between components is functioning correctly

<SetupSteps>
<SetupStep code={
  <>
    <p><strong>Create an Activity file (activity.go):</strong></p>
    <CodeSnippet language="go">
{`package greeting

import (
"context"
"fmt"
)

func Greet(ctx context.Context, name string) (string, error) {
return fmt.Sprintf("Hello %s", name), nil
}`}

</CodeSnippet>
</>
}>

### Create the Activity

> An Activity is a normal function or method that executes a single, well-defined action (either short or long running), which often involve interacting with the outside world, such as sending emails, making network requests, writing to a database, or calling an API, which are prone to failure. If an Activity fails, Temporal automatically retries it based on your configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An Activity is a normal function or method that executes a single, well-defined action (either short- or long-running) that is typically prone to failure. Examples include any action that interacts with the outside world, such as sending emails, making network requests, writing to a database, or calling an API. If an Activity fails, Temporal automatically retries it based on your configuration.
```

Create a file called `activity.go`:

</SetupStep>

<SetupStep code={
<>

<p><strong>Create a Workflow file (workflow.go):</strong></p>
<CodeSnippet language="go">
{`package greeting

import (
"time"

>     "go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow"

Reviewer 2: <img width="1037" height="327" alt="Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 1 20 31 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d562e0b4-a9d2-4074-ba5e-5d821ca20460" />

Indentation isn't rendering properly in these snippets.

Author: Thanks! Being fixed in all of them - has to do with the the component I have - just switched back to backticks.

)

func SayHelloWorkflow(ctx workflow.Context, name string) (string, error) {
ao := workflow.ActivityOptions{
StartToCloseTimeout: time.Second \* 10,
}
ctx = workflow.WithActivityOptions(ctx, ao)

    var result string
    err := workflow.ExecuteActivity(ctx, Greet, name).Get(ctx, &result)
    if err != nil {
    	return "", err
    }

    return result, nil

}
`}

</CodeSnippet>
</>
}>

### Create the Workflow

> Workflows orchestrate Activities and contain the application logic. Temporal Workflows are resilient. They can run—and keeping running—for years, even if the underlying infrastructure fails. If the application itself crashes, Temporal will automatically recreate its pre-failure state so it can continue right where it left off.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Workflows orchestrate Activities and contain the application logic. Temporal Workflows are resilient. They can run—and keep running—for years, even if the underlying infrastructure fails. If the application itself crashes, Temporal will automatically recreate its pre-failure state so it can continue right where it left off.
```

Create a file called `workflow.go`:

</SetupStep>

<SetupStep code={
<>

<p><strong>Create a Worker file (worker/main.go):</strong></p>
<CodeSnippet language="go">
{`package main

import (
"log"

> "greeting"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
greeting "my-org/greeting"
```

    "go.temporal.io/sdk/client"
    "go.temporal.io/sdk/worker"

)

func main() {
c, err := client.Dial(client.Options{})
if err != nil {
log.Fatalln("Unable to create client", err)
}
defer c.Close()

    w := worker.New(c, "my-task-queue", worker.Options{})

    w.RegisterWorkflow(greeting.SayHelloWorkflow)
    w.RegisterActivity(greeting.Greet)

    err = w.Run(worker.InterruptCh())
    if err != nil {
    	log.Fatalln("Unable to start worker", err)
    }

}
`}

</CodeSnippet>

    <p><strong>Run the Worker:</strong></p>
    <CodeSnippet language="bash">
    go run worker/main.go
    </CodeSnippet>

</>
}>

### Create and Run the Worker

> With your Activity and Workflow defined, you need a Worker to execute them. A Worker polls a Task Queue, that you configure it to poll, looking for work to do. Once the Worker dequeues the a Workflow or Activity task from the Task Queue, it then executes that task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With your Activity and Workflow defined, you need a Worker to execute them. You configure a Worker to poll a Task Queue, looking for work to do. Once the Worker dequeues a Workflow task or Activity task from the Task Queue, it then executes that task.
```

Workers are a crucial part of your Temporal application as they're what actually execute the tasks defined in your Workflows and Activities.
For more information on Workers, see [Understanding Temporal](/evaluate/understanding-temporal#workers) and a [deep dive into Workers](/workers).

> Create a file within a `worker` subdirectory called `main.go`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a `worker` subdirectory, and a file within that subdirectory called `main.go`:
```

> Keep this terminal running.

Reviewer 2: I think you're missing the "run the worker" instruction here. After that, it makes more sense to tell the user to leave the terminal running.

</SetupStep>

<SetupStep code={
<>

<div className="execution-options">
  <h4>Choose Your Execution Method</h4>
  <p>With the Worker running, you can start a Workflow in two ways:</p>
</div>

    <div className="option-section">
      <h5>Option 1: Using Temporal CLI (Recommended for testing)</h5>
      <p>Open a new terminal and run:</p>
      <CodeSnippet language="bash">
      temporal workflow start --type SayHelloWorkflow --task-queue my-task-queue --input '"Temporal"'
      </CodeSnippet>
    </div>

    <div className="option-section">
      <h5>Option 2: Create a Client Program</h5>

>       <p>Create a separate file in a `start` subdirectory called `main.go` for a more programmatic approach:</p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      <p>For a more programmatic approach, create a `start` subdirectory, and a file in that subdirectory called `main.go` :</p>
```

          padding-left: 1.5rem;
        }

        .success-section li {
          margin-bottom: 0.5rem;
          font-size: 0.95rem;
          color: var(--ifm-color-emphasis-800);
        }

        [data-theme='dark'] .execution-options {
          background: rgba(68, 76, 231, 0.12);
          border-color: rgba(68, 76, 231, 0.25);
        }

        [data-theme='dark'] .option-section {
          background: var(--ifm-color-emphasis-100);
          border-color: var(--ifm-color-emphasis-300);
        }

        [data-theme='dark'] .success-section {
          background: rgba(34, 197, 94, 0.12);
          border-color: rgba(34, 197, 94, 0.3);
        }

        @media (max-width: 768px) {
          .execution-options,
          .option-section,
          .success-section {
            padding: 1rem;
          }
        }
      `}
    </style>

</>
}>

### Execute the Workflow

Now that your Worker is running, it's time to start a Workflow Execution.

This final step will validate that everything is working correctly with your file labeled `main.go`.

:::note ADDITIONAL DETAILS ABOUT THE WORKFLOW EXECUTION

- Temporal clients are not explicitly closed.

> - To enable TLS, the `tls` option can be set to `true` or a `Temporalio::Client::Connection::TLSOptions` instance.

Author: Yeah I might either remove it or make it collapsible.
